README.md, before:

# SmartThings SmartApp NodeJS SDK (preview)

<p align="center">
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/smartapp"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/v/@smartthings/smartapp"/></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/smartapp"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/license/@smartthings/smartapp"/></a>
<a href="https://circleci.com/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/tree/master"><img src="https://circleci.com/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs.svg?style=svg"/></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs"><img src="https://codecov.io/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/branch/master/graph/badge.svg"/></a>
<a href="https://status.badgen.net/"><img src="https://badgen.net/xo/status/@smartthings/smartapp"/></a>
<a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/context:javascript"><img alt="Language grade: JavaScript" src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
<a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/alerts/"><img alt="Total alerts" src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
<a href="https://snyk.io/test/github/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs?targetFile=package.json"><img src="https://snyk.io/test/github/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/badge.svg?targetFile=package.json" alt="Known Vulnerabilities" data-canonical-src="https://snyk.io/test/github/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs?targetFile=package.json" style="max-width:100%;"></a>
<a href="https://smartthingsdev.slack.com/messages/CG595N08N"><img src="https://badgen.net/badge//smartthingsdev?icon=slack"/></a>
</p>

[Reference Documentation](doc/index.md)

SDK that wraps the SmartThings REST API and reduces the amount of code necessary to write a SmartApp app. It supports both webhook and AWS Lambda implementations. This is a preview version of the API and will change over time time.

## Installation

```bash
npm i @smartthings/smartapp --save
```

## Importing

`NodeJS`:

```javascript
const SmartApp = require('@smartthings/smartapp')
```

Or `ES2015`+:

```javascript
import SmartApp from '@smartthings/smartapp'
```

## Highlights

- [x] Javascript API hides details of REST calls and authentication.
- [x] Event handler framework dispatches lifecycle events to named event handlers.
- [x] Configuration page API simplifies page definition.
- [x] Integrated [i18n](https://www.npmjs.com/package/i18n) framework provides configuration page localization.
- [x] [Winston](https://www.npmjs.com/package/winston) framework manges log messages.
- [x] Context Store plugins – easily scale access token management (and more) to support many users
  - [x] [AWS DynamoDB](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs) plugin ([usage](#amazon-aws-dynamodb))
  - [x] [Firebase Cloud Firestore](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs) plugin ([usage](#firebase-cloud-firestore))

## Roadmap

![Roadmap](doc/roadmap-2019.png)

## Example

The following example is the equivalent of the original SmartThings Groovy _Let There Be Light_ app that turns on and off a light when a door opens and closes.

### Running it as a web service

To run the app with an HTTP server, like Express.js:

```javascript
const express    = require('express');
const SmartApp   = require('@smartthings/smartapp');
const server     = module.exports = express();
const PORT       = 8080;

server.use(express.json());

/* Define the SmartApp */
const smartapp = new SmartApp()
    // @smartthings_rsa.pub is your on-disk public key
    // If you do not have it yet, omit publicKey()
    .publicKey('@smartthings_rsa.pub') // optional until app verified
    .enableEventLogging(2) // logs all lifecycle event requests and responses as pretty-printed JSON. Omit in production
    .configureI18n()
    .page('mainPage', (context, page, configData) => {
        page.section('sensors', section => {
           section
            .deviceSetting('contactSensor')
            .capabilities(['contactSensor'])
            .required(false);
        });
        page.section('lights', section => {
            section
                .deviceSetting('lights')
                .capabilities(['switch'])
                .multiple(true)
                .permissions('rx');
        });
    })
    .updated(async (context, updateData) => {
        // Called for both INSTALLED and UPDATED lifecycle events if there is no separate installed() handler
        await context.api.subscriptions.unsubscribeAll()
        return context.api.subscriptions.subscribeToDevices(context.config.contactSensor, 'contactSensor', 'contact', 'myDeviceEventHandler');
    })
    .subscribedEventHandler('myDeviceEventHandler', (context, event) => {
        const value = event.value === 'open' ? 'on' : 'off';
        context.api.devices.sendCommands(context.config.lights, 'switch', value);
    });

/* Handle POST requests */
server.post('/', function(req, res, next) {
  smartapp.handleHttpCallback(req, res);
});

/* Start listening at your defined PORT */
server.listen(PORT, () => console.log(`Server is up and running on port ${PORT}`));
```

### Running as an AWS Lambda function

To run as a Lambda function instead of an HTTP server, ensure that your main entry file exports `smartapp.handleLambdaCallback(...)`.

> **Note:** This snippet is heavily truncated for brevity – see the web service example above a more detailed example of how to define a `smartapp`.

```javascript
const SmartApp = require('@smartthings/smartapp')
const smartapp = new SmartApp()
    .enableEventLogging() // logs all lifecycle event requests and responses. Omit in production
    .page( ... )
    .updated(() => { ... })
    .subscribedEventHandler( ... );

exports.handler = (event, context, callback) => {
    smartapp.handleLambdaCallback(event, context, callback);
};
```

### Localization

Configuration page strings are specified in a separate `locales/en.json` file, which can be automatically created the first time you run the app. Here's a completed English localization file for the previous example:

```json
{
  "pages.mainPage.name": "Let There Be Light",
  "pages.mainPage.sections.sensors.name": "When this door or window opens or closes",
  "pages.mainPage.settings.contactSensor.name": "Select open/close sensor",
  "pages.mainPage.sections.lights.name": "Turn on and off these lights and switches",
  "pages.mainPage.settings.lights.name": "Select lights and switches",
  "Tap to set": "Tap to set"
}
```

### Making API calls outside of an EVENT handler

By default, the SmartApp SDK will facilitate API calls on behalf of a user within the `EVENT` lifecycle. These user tokens are ephemeral and last *5 minutes*. These access tokens are not able to be refreshed and should _not_ be stored. If you're making out-of-band API calls on behalf of a user's installed app, you will need to use the 24-hour access token that are supplied after `INSTALL` and `UPDATE` lifecycles. This token includes a `refresh_token`, and will be automatically refreshed by the SDK when necessary.

> Be aware that **there is no in-memory context store**, you must use a context store plugin. If you'd like to add a custom context store plugin, please [contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

To get started, let's add a compatible `ContextStore` plugin that will persist these tokens (among other things) to a database.

#### Amazon AWS DynamoDB

Available as a node package on [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/dynamodb-context-store) or [fork on GitHub](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs/fork).

If you are hosting your SmartApp as an AWS Lambda, this DynamoDB context store makes perfect sense. This assumes you've already configured the [`aws-sdk`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/aws-sdk) package to interact with your Lambda, so extending your context store to DynamoDB is a drop-in solution.

If you are self-hosted and still want to use DynamoDB, you can do that, too:

1. Import the package to your project: `npm i --save @smartthings/dynamodb-context-store`
    - *Note:* when adding this package, you also have `aws-sdk` available at the global scope, so you can configure the AWS SDK: `AWS.config.loadFromPath(creds)`
1. Get an [AWS Access Key and Secret](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/getting-your-credentials.html)
1. Set your credentials for your app, [any of the following ways are fine](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/setting-credentials-node.html).
1. Register your Context Store plugin as described on [the project repository's readme.](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs#usage)

For complete directions on usage, please see this project's GitHub repository. ([SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs))

#### Firebase Cloud Firestore

Available as a node package on [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/firestore-context-store) or [fork on GitHub](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs/fork). Usage is generally the same as DynamoDB:

1. Generate a Firebase service account. You will receive a JSON file with the credentials.
1. Load your Google Services JSON
1. Create the context store

See the full usage guide on the project's GitHub repository. ([SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs#usage))

---

## More about SmartThings

If you are not familiar with SmartThings, we have
[extensive on-line documentation](https://smartthings.developer.samsung.com/develop/index.html).

To create and manage your services and devices on SmartThings, create an account in the
[developer workspace](https://devworkspace.developer.samsung.com/).

The [SmartThings Community](https://community.smartthings.com/c/developers/) is a good place share and
ask questions.

There is also a [SmartThings reddit community](https://www.reddit.com/r/SmartThings/) where you
can read and share information.

## License and Copyright

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](LICENSE)

Copyright 2019 SmartThings, Inc.

Commit message:

fix: Added default unhandled promise rejection handler

README.md, after:

# SmartThings SmartApp NodeJS SDK (preview)

<p align="center">
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/smartapp"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/v/@smartthings/smartapp"/></a>
<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/smartapp"><img src="https://badgen.net/npm/license/@smartthings/smartapp"/></a>
<a href="https://circleci.com/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/tree/master"><img src="https://circleci.com/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs.svg?style=svg"/></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs"><img src="https://codecov.io/gh/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/branch/master/graph/badge.svg"/></a>
<a href="https://status.badgen.net/"><img src="https://badgen.net/xo/status/@smartthings/smartapp"/></a>
<a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/context:javascript"><img alt="Language grade: JavaScript" src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
<a href="https://lgtm.com/projects/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/alerts/"><img alt="Total alerts" src="https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18"/></a>
<a href="https://snyk.io/test/github/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs?targetFile=package.json"><img src="https://snyk.io/test/github/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs/badge.svg?targetFile=package.json" alt="Known Vulnerabilities" data-canonical-src="https://snyk.io/test/github/SmartThingsCommunity/smartapp-sdk-nodejs?targetFile=package.json" style="max-width:100%;"></a>
<a href="https://smartthingsdev.slack.com/messages/CG595N08N"><img src="https://badgen.net/badge//smartthingsdev?icon=slack"/></a>
</p>

[Reference Documentation](doc/index.md)

SDK that wraps the SmartThings REST API and reduces the amount of code necessary to write a SmartApp app. It supports both webhook and AWS Lambda implementations. This is a preview version of the API and will change over time time.

## Installation

```bash
npm i @smartthings/smartapp --save
```

## Importing

`NodeJS`:

```javascript
const SmartApp = require('@smartthings/smartapp')
```

Or `ES2015`+:

```javascript
import SmartApp from '@smartthings/smartapp'
```

## Highlights

- [x] Javascript API hides details of REST calls and authentication.
- [x] Event handler framework dispatches lifecycle events to named event handlers.
- [x] Configuration page API simplifies page definition.
- [x] Integrated [i18n](https://www.npmjs.com/package/i18n) framework provides configuration page localization.
- [x] [Winston](https://www.npmjs.com/package/winston) framework manges log messages.
- [x] Context Store plugins – easily scale access token management (and more) to support many users
  - [x] [AWS DynamoDB](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs) plugin ([usage](#amazon-aws-dynamodb))
  - [x] [Firebase Cloud Firestore](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs) plugin ([usage](#firebase-cloud-firestore))

## Roadmap

![Roadmap](doc/roadmap-2019.png)

## Example

The following example is the equivalent of the original SmartThings Groovy _Let There Be Light_ app that turns on and off a light when a door opens and closes.

### Running it as a web service

To run the app with an HTTP server, like Express.js:

```javascript
const express    = require('express');
const SmartApp   = require('@smartthings/smartapp');
const server     = module.exports = express();
const PORT       = 8080;

server.use(express.json());

/* Define the SmartApp */
const smartapp = new SmartApp()
    // @smartthings_rsa.pub is your on-disk public key
    // If you do not have it yet, omit publicKey()
    .publicKey('@smartthings_rsa.pub') // optional until app verified
    .enableEventLogging(2) // logs all lifecycle event requests and responses as pretty-printed JSON. Omit in production
    .configureI18n()
    .page('mainPage', (context, page, configData) => {
        page.section('sensors', section => {
           section
            .deviceSetting('contactSensor')
            .capabilities(['contactSensor'])
            .required(false);
        });
        page.section('lights', section => {
            section
                .deviceSetting('lights')
                .capabilities(['switch'])
                .multiple(true)
                .permissions('rx');
        });
    })
    .updated(async (context, updateData) => {
        // Called for both INSTALLED and UPDATED lifecycle events if there is no separate installed() handler
        await context.api.subscriptions.unsubscribeAll()
        return context.api.subscriptions.subscribeToDevices(context.config.contactSensor, 'contactSensor', 'contact', 'myDeviceEventHandler');
    })
    .subscribedEventHandler('myDeviceEventHandler', (context, event) => {
        const value = event.value === 'open' ? 'on' : 'off';
        context.api.devices.sendCommands(context.config.lights, 'switch', value);
    });

/* Handle POST requests */
server.post('/', function(req, res, next) {
  smartapp.handleHttpCallback(req, res);
});

/* Start listening at your defined PORT */
server.listen(PORT, () => console.log(`Server is up and running on port ${PORT}`));
```

### Running as an AWS Lambda function

To run as a Lambda function instead of an HTTP server, ensure that your main entry file exports `smartapp.handleLambdaCallback(...)`.

> **Note:** This snippet is heavily truncated for brevity – see the web service example above a more detailed example of how to define a `smartapp`.

```javascript
const SmartApp = require('@smartthings/smartapp')
const smartapp = new SmartApp()
    .enableEventLogging() // logs all lifecycle event requests and responses. Omit in production
    .page( ... )
    .updated(() => { ... })
    .subscribedEventHandler( ... );

exports.handler = (event, context, callback) => {
    smartapp.handleLambdaCallback(event, context, callback);
};
```

### Localization

Configuration page strings are specified in a separate `locales/en.json` file, which can be automatically created the first time you run the app. Here's a completed English localization file for the previous example:

```json
{
  "pages.mainPage.name": "Let There Be Light",
  "pages.mainPage.sections.sensors.name": "When this door or window opens or closes",
  "pages.mainPage.settings.contactSensor.name": "Select open/close sensor",
  "pages.mainPage.sections.lights.name": "Turn on and off these lights and switches",
  "pages.mainPage.settings.lights.name": "Select lights and switches",
  "Tap to set": "Tap to set"
}
```

### Unhandled Promise Rejection Handling

By default, instation of the SmartApp object registers an "unhandledReject" handler 
that logs unhandled promise rejections. If you don't want this behavior you can disable
it by passing an option to the SmartApp instantion, e.g. `new SmartApp({logUnhandedRejections: false})`.
If you want to replace the handler you can do that by calling `unhandledRejectionHandler(promise => {...})`
on the SmartApp object.

### Making API calls outside of an EVENT handler

By default, the SmartApp SDK will facilitate API calls on behalf of a user within the `EVENT` lifecycle. These user tokens are ephemeral and last *5 minutes*. These access tokens are not able to be refreshed and should _not_ be stored. If you're making out-of-band API calls on behalf of a user's installed app, you will need to use the 24-hour access token that are supplied after `INSTALL` and `UPDATE` lifecycles. This token includes a `refresh_token`, and will be automatically refreshed by the SDK when necessary.

> Be aware that **there is no in-memory context store**, you must use a context store plugin. If you'd like to add a custom context store plugin, please [contribute](CONTRIBUTING.md)!

To get started, let's add a compatible `ContextStore` plugin that will persist these tokens (among other things) to a database.

#### Amazon AWS DynamoDB

Available as a node package on [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/dynamodb-context-store) or [fork on GitHub](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs/fork).

If you are hosting your SmartApp as an AWS Lambda, this DynamoDB context store makes perfect sense. This assumes you've already configured the [`aws-sdk`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/aws-sdk) package to interact with your Lambda, so extending your context store to DynamoDB is a drop-in solution.

If you are self-hosted and still want to use DynamoDB, you can do that, too:

1. Import the package to your project: `npm i --save @smartthings/dynamodb-context-store`
    - *Note:* when adding this package, you also have `aws-sdk` available at the global scope, so you can configure the AWS SDK: `AWS.config.loadFromPath(creds)`
1. Get an [AWS Access Key and Secret](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/getting-your-credentials.html)
1. Set your credentials for your app, [any of the following ways are fine](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/setting-credentials-node.html).
1. Register your Context Store plugin as described on [the project repository's readme.](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs#usage)

For complete directions on usage, please see this project's GitHub repository. ([SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/dynamodb-context-store-nodejs))

#### Firebase Cloud Firestore

Available as a node package on [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@smartthings/firestore-context-store) or [fork on GitHub](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs/fork). Usage is generally the same as DynamoDB:

1. Generate a Firebase service account. You will receive a JSON file with the credentials.
1. Load your Google Services JSON
1. Create the context store

See the full usage guide on the project's GitHub repository. ([SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs](https://github.com/SmartThingsCommunity/firestore-context-store-nodejs#usage))

---

## More about SmartThings

If you are not familiar with SmartThings, we have
[extensive on-line documentation](https://smartthings.developer.samsung.com/develop/index.html).

To create and manage your services and devices on SmartThings, create an account in the
[developer workspace](https://devworkspace.developer.samsung.com/).

The [SmartThings Community](https://community.smartthings.com/c/developers/) is a good place share and
ask questions.

There is also a [SmartThings reddit community](https://www.reddit.com/r/SmartThings/) where you
can read and share information.

## License and Copyright

Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](LICENSE)

Copyright 2019 SmartThings, Inc.
